# 0610_m24_qp_12

_Converted from `0610_m24_qp_12.pdf` on 2026-02-25_

---

<!-- Page 1 -->

This document has 16 pages. Any blank pages are indicated. 
03_0610_12_2024_1.12a
© UCLES 2024 [Turn over
*0710240306*
Cambridge IGCSE™ 
BIOLOGY 0610/12 
Paper 1 Multiple Choice (Core)  February/March 2024 
45 minutes 
You must an
swer on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
You will need: Multiple choice answer sheet 
Soft clean eraser 
Soft pencil (type B or HB is recommended) 
INSTRUCTIONS  
 There are forty questions on this paper. Answer all questions.
 For each question there are four possible answers A, B, C and D. Choose the one you consider correct
and record your choice in soft pencil on the multiple choice answer sheet.
 Follow the instructions on the multiple choice answer sheet.
 Write in soft pencil.
 Write your name, centre number and candidate number on the multiple choice answer sheet in the
spaces provided unless this has been done for you.
 Do not use correction fluid.
 Do not write on any bar codes.
 You may use a calculator.
INFORMATION 
 The total mark for this paper is 40.
 Each correct answer will score one mark.
 Any rough working should be done on this question paper.

---

<!-- Page 2 -->

What is a characteristic of all living organisms?1
breathingA
egestionB
excretionC
ingestionD
The diagram shows a flowering plant. 2
A key can be used to identify the plant.
Which letter in the key identifies the flowering plant shown in the diagram?
flower has four petals
plant
leaves with
jagged edges
leaves with
smooth edges
BA
flower has five petals
leaves with
jagged edges
leaves with
smooth edges
DC
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
2

---

<!-- Page 3 -->

The drawing shows a ground squirrel.3
Which feature identifies this animal as a mammal?
eyeA
four limbsB
furC
tailD
The diagram shows different types of cell.4
Which structure do all these cells have?
cell membraneA
cell wallB
chloroplastC
nucleusD
[Turn over03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
3

---

<!-- Page 4 -->

The drawing of the insect shown has a magnification of ×5.
The
scale shown is in mm.
5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110 130
120
What is the actual size of the insect?
625 mmD130 mmC120 mmB25 mmA
Which factor would increase the rate of diffusion of oxygen molecules out of a photosynthesising
leaf?
6
decreasing the concentration gradientA
decreasing the distance over which diffusion occursB
decreasing the surface area of the leafC
decreasing the temperatureD
Which process only involves the movement of water through the partially permeable membrane of
a cell?
7
absorptionA
evaporationB
osmosisC
transpirationD
Which statement about active transport is correct?8
It does not require a cell membrane.A
It does not require energy from respiration.B
It moves particles from a lower concentration to a higher concentration.C
It moves water into and out of cells.D
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
4

---

<!-- Page 5 -->

DCPIP can be used to test for vitamin C in food. Lemon juice contains vitamin C. 
When lemon juice is tested with DCPIP what are the results?
9
starts blue, finishes colourlessA
starts colourless, finishes blueB
stays blueC
stays colourlessD
Which reagent is used to test for the presence of protein in food?10
Benedict’s solutionA
biuret solutionB
ethanolC
iodine solutionD
The graph shows the effect of pH on the rate of reaction of an enzyme.11
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
rate of
reaction
pH
What does the graph show?
The enzyme is destroyed at pH 9.A
The enzyme works best at pH 6.B
The rate of reaction halves as the pH changes from pH 5 to pH 7.C
The rate of reaction is the same at pH 5 and pH 8.5.D
[Turn over03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
5

---

<!-- Page 6 -->

The diagram shows an experiment to investigate the balance between respiration and
photosynthesis.
In
which tube are photosynthesis and respiration taking place at the same time?
12
A B C D
black
polythene
to keep
out light
water
snail
pond
weed
light lightlight
Some variegated leaves have white parts and green parts.
A
plant with variegated leaves has the starch removed from its leaves by placing it in a dark cupboard
for 48 hours.
Black paper is then fixed on one leaf as shown and the plant is exposed to light.
After 24 hours, which part of the leaf contains starch?
13
green region white region
black paper on
both sides of leaf
A
B
C
D
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
6

---

<!-- Page 7 -->

The diagram shows a plant cell.14
nucleus
cell membrane
chloroplast
cytoplasm
cell wall
vacuole
Which type of cell is shown?
cuticle cellA
epidermal cellB
palisade mesophyll cellC
spongy mesophyll cellD
The pie charts show the composition of 100 g of four different foods. 
Which food provides the most energy?
15
key
carbohydrate
fats and oils
protein
water
A
B C D
[Turn over03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
7

---

<!-- Page 8 -->

The diagram shows the digestive system and some of its associated organs.
Which label identifies the liver?
16
B
C
A
D
Which statements about teeth are correct?17
Canine teeth are for chewing and grinding food.1
Incisor teeth are for biting and cutting food.2
Premolar teeth are for chewing and grinding food.3
2 onlyD1 onlyC2 and 3 onlyB1, 2 and 3A
What is the definition of chemical digestion?18
Large insoluble molecules are changed into smaller soluble molecules.A
Large soluble molecules are changed into smaller soluble molecules.B
Small insoluble molecules and ions are passed through the wall of the small intestine.C
Small soluble molecules and ions are passed through the wall of the small intestine.D
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
8

---

<!-- Page 9 -->

In which part of the alimentary canal does hydrochloric acid provide an acid pH for enzymes?19
colonA
duodenumB
ileumC
stomachD
Which tissue has the function of providing support for a plant?20
epidermisA
mesophyllB
phloemC
xylemD
Which graph shows the effect of increasing wind speed on the rate of transpiration?21
A
wind speed
rate of
transpiration
B
wind speed
rate of
transpiration
C
wind speed
rate of
transpiration
D
wind speed
rate of
transpiration
[Turn over03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
9

---

<!-- Page 10 -->

What ensures one-way flow of blood in the circulatory system?22
atriaA
septumB
valvesC
ventriclesD
The diagrams show sections through three blood vessels, which are not drawn to the same scale. 
Some red blood cells are shown in vessel 3.
23
1 2 3
In which order will red blood cells flow through these vessels when travelling from the right ventricle
to the left atrium of the heart?
3 → 1 → 2D2 → 3 → 1C1 → 3 → 2B1 → 2 → 3A
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
10

---

<!-- Page 11 -->

Scientists used an ECG trace to monitor the heart of a student at rest and during exercise.24
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2 2.4 2.6 2.8
time / s
ECG trace
at rest
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2 2.4 2.6 2.8
time / s
ECG trace
during
exercise
What is the explanation for the difference in the ECG traces?
During exercise the heart rate increases to transport more oxygen to muscles.A
During exercise the heart rate increases to breathe in more oxygen.B
During exercise the breathing rate increases to supply more oxygen to muscles.C
During exercise the breathing rate increases to breathe in more oxygen.D
Statements about pathogens are given.25
A pathogen is a disease-causing organism.1
All pathogens are bacteria.2
A pathogen can be transmitted by indirect contact through contaminated food.3
Which statements are correct?
3 onlyD1 onlyC1 and 3B1 and 2A
[Turn over03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
11

---

<!-- Page 12 -->

Which structure in the breathing system has the thinnest wall?26
alveolusA
bronchioleB
bronchusC
tracheaD
What are the products of aerobic respiration?27
carbon dioxide and lactic acidA
carbon dioxide and waterB
carbon dioxide onlyC
lactic acid and waterD
What are the products of anaerobic respiration in yeast?
28
lactic acidcarbon
dioxidealcohol
noyesyesA
yesnoyesB
noyesnoC
yesnonoD
Some excretory products are listed.29
carbon dioxide1
excess ions2
excess water3
urea4
Which products are excreted by the kidneys?
3 and 4 onlyD1 and 2 onlyC2, 3 and 4B1, 2 and 3A
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
12

---

<!-- Page 13 -->

A person touches a sharp object. The person immediately pulls their hand away.
Which row shows the correct description of the term?
30
descriptionterm
pulling the hand awayeffectorA
muscles in the armreceptorB
sensory neurones in the skinresponseC
sharp object touching the skinstimulusD
Which structure focuses light on the retina?31
corneaA
irisB
lensC
optic nerveD
Which statements describe adrenaline and its effects on the human body?32
Pupil diameter becomes smaller.1
Breathing rate decreases.2
Heart rate increases.3
Adrenaline is transported in the blood.4
3 and 4 onlyD1 and 2C2, 3 and 4B1, 3 and 4A
Which statements about drugs are correct?33
Drugs affect or modify chemical reactions in the body.1
Drugs called antibiotics can be used to kill bacteria.2
Drugs called antibiotics can be used to kill viruses.3
2 onlyD1 onlyC2 and 3B1 and 2A
[Turn over03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
13

---

<!-- Page 14 -->

At which point in the diagram does fertilisation happen?34
A
D
B
C
The seed shape of peas can be smooth or wrinkled. The allele for smooth is dominant and the
allele for wrinkled is recessive.
Two heterozygous plants are crossed.
What is the expected percentage of offspring with a smooth shape?
35
100%D75%C50%B0%A
Which human phenotype is caused by genes only?36
ABO blood groupA
body massB
foot sizeC
heightD
What is a correct ecological definition?37
A community is a group of organisms of one species living in the same area.A
An ecosystem is a community of organisms and their environment interacting together.B
A population is a group of different species living together.C
A species is all of the different organisms living in a community.D
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
14

---

<!-- Page 15 -->

Which action will decrease the population of an endangered animal species in a habitat?38
a ban on hunting this speciesA
building homes for people in this areaB
educating people about this speciesC
using captive breeding programmes to release animals of this species into the habitatD
Which row shows two reasons why bacteria are used in genetic modification?39
rate of reproductioncan make complex
molecules
slownoA
slowyesB
rapidnoC
rapidyesD
Which row shows uses of genetic modification?40
producing 
herbicide-resistant 
crops
producing crops
that are resistant to
insect pests
producing human
proteins
yesnonoA
noyesnoB
nonoyesC
yesyesyesD
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
15

---

<!-- Page 16 -->

BLANK PAGE
03_0610_12_2024_1.12© UCLES 2024
16
Permission to reproduce items where third-party owned material protected by copyright is included has been sought and cleared where possible. Every 
reasonable effort has been made by the publisher (UCLES) to tra ce copyright holders, but if any items requiring clearance have  unwittingly been included, the 
publisher will be pleased to make amends at the earliest possible opportunity. 
To avoid the issue of disclosure of answer-related information to candidates, all copyright acknowledgements are reproduced on line in the Cambridge 
Assessment International Education Copyright Acknowledgements Booklet. This is produced for each series of examinations and is freely available to download 
at www.cambridgeinternational.org after the live examination series. 
Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambrid ge Assessment. Cambridge Assessment is the brand name of the Un iversity of Cambridge 
Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES), which is a department of the University of Cambridge.