# 0610_w24_qp_11

_Converted from `0610_w24_qp_11.pdf` on 2026-02-25_

---

<!-- Page 1 -->

This document has 16 pages. 
IB24 11_0610_11/4RP  
© UCLES 2024  [Turn over
 
*5824861462*
Cambridge IGCSE™ 
  
 
BIOLOGY 0610/11 
 
Paper 1 Multiple Choice (Core)  October/November 2024 
 
 45 minutes 
 
You must answer on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
 
You will need: Multiple choice answer sheet 
 Soft clean eraser 
 Soft pencil (type B or HB is recommended) 
  
 
INSTRUCTIONS  
 There are forty questions on this paper. Answer all questions.  
 For each question there are four possible answers A, B, C and D. Choose the one you consider correct 
and record your choice in soft pencil on the multiple choice an swer sheet.  
 Follow the instructions on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
 Write in soft pencil. 
 Write your name, centre number and candidate number on the mult iple choice answer sheet in the 
spaces provided unless this has been done for you. 
 Do not use correction fluid. 
 Do not write on any bar codes. 
 You may use a calculator. 
 
 
INFORMATION 
 The total mark for this paper is 40. 
 Each correct answer will score one mark. 
 Any rough working should be done on this question paper.

---

<!-- Page 2 -->

2 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24  
1 The diagram shows a leaf on a plant. 
 
Sun
water from
the soil
carbon dioxide
from the air
simple sugars
made in the leaf
 
 
Which characteristic of life is represented by this diagram? 
A excretion 
B nutrition 
C respiration 
D sensitivity 
 
 
2 Which description of a species is correct? 
A a group of organisms that can reproduce to produce fertile off spring 
B a group of animals that can produce genetically different offs pring 
C a group of organisms living in the same area at the same time 
D all of the populations in an ecosystem

---

<!-- Page 3 -->

3  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24 [Turn over 
3 The diagram shows a dolphin. 
 
 
 
Dolphins are mammals that live in the sea. 
 
Which row correctly identifies some of the features of dolphins? 
 
 organ of gas 
exchange produces milk 
A gills no 
B gills yes 
C lungs no 
D lungs yes 
 
 
4 Which structures are found in an animal cell? 
 
 cell 
membrane cell wall chloroplast large 
vacuole cytoplasm nucleus 
A yes yes yes no no no 
B yes no no no yes yes 
C no yes no no no yes 
D no no yes yes no no 
 
 
5 What is the function of ciliated cells in the bronchi? 
A to absorb oxygen 
B to digest pathogens 
C to move mucus 
D to produce antibodies

---

<!-- Page 4 -->

4 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24  
6 The diagram shows an organism called a copepod. The magnificat ion of the diagram is 30. 
 
X
Y  
 
The length of line XY is 45 mm. 
 
What is the actual length of the copepod? 
A 0.67 mm B 1.5 mm C 15 mm D 1350 mm 
 
 
7 Some molecules move through a membrane during osmosis. 
 
Which row shows the molecule that moves and the type of membrane? 
 
 molecule moving type of membrane 
A oxygen partially permeable 
B oxygen permeable 
C water partially permeable 
D water permeable 
 
 
8 What is a feature of active transport? 
A It requires energy from respiration. 
B It involves the random movement of molecules. 
C Substances are moved down a concentration gradient. 
D Water is the only substance moved by this process. 
 
 
9 Which substances are made by linking together glucose molecule s only? 
A cellulose, glycogen and starch 
B fats, cellulose and proteins 
C proteins, oils and glycogen 
D starch, fats and oils

---

<!-- Page 5 -->

5  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24 [Turn over 
10 Four solutions were tested to see if they contained protein, s tarch or glucose. 
 
The colours of the solutions after the tests are recorded in the table. 
 
Which solution contained protein and glucose but not starch? 
 
 biuret test iodine solution te st Benedict’s solution test 
A blue yellow-brown brick-red 
B blue blue-black blue 
C purple yellow-brown brick-red 
D purple blue-black blue 
 
 
11 Which type of biological molecule are enzymes made of? 
A carbohydrate 
B fat 
C oil 
D protein 
 
 
12 The diagrams show molecules involved in the action of a digest ive enzyme. 
 
What is the substrate? 
 
ABCD

---

<!-- Page 6 -->

6 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24  
13 The graph shows how the activity of an enzyme varies with temp erature. 
 
rate of 
enzyme
activity
temperature
 / °C
01 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0
 
 
What is the optimum temperature for this enzyme, and at which t emperature is the enzyme 
completely denatured? 
 
 temperature / C 
 optimum completely 
denatured 
A 30   0 
B 30 60 
C 50   0 
D 50 60

---

<!-- Page 7 -->

7  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24 [Turn over 
14 An experiment is set up as shown. 
 
test-tube X
small plant
gauze platform
green
indicator
test-tube Y 
 
The green indicator: 
 
● turns yellow when the carbon dioxide concentration increases 
● turns blue when the carbon dioxide concentration decreases. 
 
After several hours, the indicator in test-tube X turned blue. The indicator in test-tube Y remained 
green. 
 
Which process caused the colour change? 
A germination 
B photosynthesis 
C respiration 
D transpiration 
 
 
15 What is a description of transpiration? 
A the breakdown of nutrient molecules to release energy 
B the flow of energy through living organisms 
C the loss of water vapour from leaves 
D the pressure of water inside cells pressing outwards on the ce ll wall

---

<!-- Page 8 -->

8 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24  
16 The photomicrograph shows a cross-section through a leaf. 
 
Which structure is the cuticle? 
 
A
B
C
D
 
 
 
17 What is lacking in the diet of a person with scurvy? 
A calcium 
B iron 
C vitamin C 
D vitamin D 
 
 
18 What is a part of the small intestine? 
A anus 
B colon 
C ileum 
D rectum

---

<!-- Page 9 -->

9  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24 [Turn over 
19 The diagram shows the apparatus  used in an experiment to demonstrate two processes that take 
place in the body. 
 
test-tube
pure water
dialysis tubing which
is partially permeable
mixture of saliva
and starch solution
dialysis tubing ends
tightly sealed
 
 
After one hour, the water outside the dialysis tubing contained reducing sugars. 
 
Which two processes are represented by this experiment? 
A absorption and digestion 
B absorption and egestion 
C digestion and egestion 
D digestion and ingestion 
 
 
20 Which row identifies the four types of human teeth shown? 
 
3421
 
 
 1  2  3  4  
A canine incisor molar premolar 
B premolar incisor molar canine 
C canine premolar incisor molar 
D premolar molar incisor canine

---

<!-- Page 10 -->

10 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24  
21 The diagram shows the human digestive system. 
 
P
Q
R
S
T
 
 
Which letters show where amylase acts during digestion? 
A P and R B P and S C Q and R D Q and T 
 
 
22 Which row describes transport in a plant? 
 
 transport tissue 
transport tissue 
found in a 
vascular bundle 
substances 
transported 
A 
 
phloem 
 
yes 
 
sucrose and 
amino acids 
B 
 
phloem 
 
no 
 
water and 
mineral ions 
C 
 
xylem 
 
yes 
 
sucrose and 
amino acids 
D 
 
xylem 
 
no 
 
water and 
mineral ions 
 
 
23 In humans, which structures provide cells with oxygen and nutr ients? 
A a r t e r i e s  
B capillaries 
C lungs 
D veins

---

<!-- Page 11 -->

11  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24 [Turn over 
24 The diagram shows part of the human circulatory system. 
 
legs
kidneys
lungs
head
6
1
2
3
4
5
 
 
What are the numbered blood vessels? 
 
 vena cava pulmonary 
vein renal artery 
A 5 6 4 
B 2 1 3 
C 5 1 3 
D 2 6 4

---

<!-- Page 12 -->

12 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24  
25 Some methods of transmitting pathogens are listed. 
 
1 drinking contaminated water 
2 contact with another person’s blood 
3 contact with another person’s saliva 
4 touching contaminated surfaces 
 
How many are indirect methods of transmitting pathogens? 
A none 
B one 
C t w o  
D three 
 
 
26 Which substances are used and produced in aerobic respiration in a plant cell? 
 
 substances used in 
aerobic respiration 
substances produced in 
aerobic respiration 
A carbon dioxide and glucose oxygen and water 
B carbon dioxide and water glucose and oxygen 
C glucose and oxygen carbon dioxide and water 
D glucose and water carbon dioxide and oxygen 
 
 
27 Which organ excretes urea? 
A bladder 
B kidney 
C liver 
D lung 
 
 
28 Which statements about hormones are correct? 
 
1 The ovaries secrete oestrogen. 
2 The pancreas secretes adrenaline. 
3 The pancreas secretes insulin. 
 
A 1 and 3 B 1 only C 2 and 3 D 2 only

---

<!-- Page 13 -->

13  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24 [Turn over 
29 The diagram shows a plant shoot growing towards the light. 
 
light
 
 
What is the name of this plant shoot’s response to light? 
A gravitropism 
B photosynthesis 
C phototropism 
D reflex 
 
 
30 Parts of an insect-pollinated flower are listed. 
 
1 anther 
2 filament 
3 stigma 
4 style 
 
Which parts are in a carpel? 
A 1 and 2 B 1 and 3 C 2 and 4 D 3 and 4 
 
 
31 What is treated with antibiotics? 
A a bacterial infection 
B rickets 
C scurvy 
D a viral infection 
 
 
32 Which statement describes asexual reproduction? 
A the production of genetically different offspring from one par ent 
B the production of genetically different offspring from two par ents 
C the production of genetically identical offspring from one par ent 
D the production of genetically identical offspring from two par ents

---

<!-- Page 14 -->

14 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24  
33 In humans, why are sperm cells produced in much greater number s than egg cells? 
A Many sperm cells are needed to fertilise an egg cell. 
B Sperm cells are small in size. 
C Sperm cells are non-motile. 
D The chance of one sperm cell reaching an egg is very small. 
 
 
34 What is the ball of cells that implants into the lining of the  uterus during sexual reproduction in 
humans? 
A e m b r y o  
B gamete 
C placenta 
D z y g o t e  
 
 
35 Which sex chromosomes need to be present in a sperm cell to pr oduce a male offspring? 
A X only B Y only C XX D X Y  
 
 
36 ABO blood groups are an example of one type of variation. 
 
What is the cause of this type of variation? 
A environment only 
B genes only 
C genes and environment 
D mutation and environment 
 
 
37 Which statement is an example of natural selection? 
A choosing donkeys with desirable characteristics to breed 
B choosing to cross-pollinate wheat plants with the highest yiel ds 
C inserting genes into a crop plant to improve its nutritional q ualities 
D in wild flowers, the development of petals that look like inse cts to attract pollinators

---

<!-- Page 15 -->

15  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24 [Turn over 
38 The graph shows the increase in the human population of the world since 1630. 
 
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
5000
6000
1630 1730 1830 1930 2030
population
/ millions
year  
 
What was the longest time taken for the population to double? 
A 100 years B 200 years C 300 years D 400 years 
 
 
39 Lichens are organisms that do not grow well in polluted air. 
 
Which graph shows the change in the number of lichen species fr om the centre of a polluted city 
to the unpolluted countryside 15
 km away? 
 
distance from
city centre / km
A
01 5
B
C D
number
of lichen
species
distance from
city centre
 / km
01 5
number
of lichen
species
distance from
city centre
 / km
01 5
number
of lichen
species
distance from
city centre
 / km
01 5
number
of lichen
species

---

<!-- Page 16 -->

16 
 
Permission to reproduce items where third-party owned material protected by copyright is included has been sought and cleared where possible. Every 
reasonable effort has been made by the publisher (UCLES) to tra ce copyright holders, but if any items requiring clearance have  unwittingly been included, the 
publisher will be pleased to make amends at the earliest possib le opportunity. 
 
To avoid the issue of disclosure of answer-related information to candidates, all copyright acknowledgements are reproduced on line in the Cambridge 
Assessment International Education Copyright Acknowledgements B ooklet. This is produced for each series of examinations and is  freely available to download 
at www.cambridgeinternational.org after the live examination se ries. 
 
Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambrid ge Assessment. Cambridge Assessment is the brand name of the Un iversity of Cambridge 
Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES), which is a department of the University of Cambridge. 
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/11/O/N/24  
40 Which trophic level describes an organism that only eats herbi vores? 
A producer 
B primary consumer 
C secondary consumer 
D tertiary consumer