# 0610_w24_qp_13

_Converted from `0610_w24_qp_13.pdf` on 2026-02-25_

---

<!-- Page 1 -->

This document has 16 pages. Any blank pages are indicated. 
IB24 11_0610_13/4RP  
© UCLES 2024  [Turn over
 
*6303995137*
Cambridge IGCSE™ 
  
 
BIOLOGY 0610/13 
 
Paper 1 Multiple Choice (Core)  October/November 2024 
 
 45 minutes 
 
You must answer on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
 
You will need: Multiple choice answer sheet 
 Soft clean eraser 
 Soft pencil (type B or HB is recommended) 
  
 
INSTRUCTIONS  
 There are forty questions on this paper. Answer all questions.  
 For each question there are four possible answers A, B, C and D. Choose the one you consider correct 
and record your choice in soft pencil on the multiple choice an swer sheet.  
 Follow the instructions on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
 Write in soft pencil. 
 Write your name, centre number and candidate number on the mult iple choice answer sheet in the 
spaces provided unless this has been done for you. 
 Do not use correction fluid. 
 Do not write on any bar codes. 
 You may use a calculator. 
 
 
INFORMATION 
 The total mark for this paper is 40. 
 Each correct answer will score one mark. 
 Any rough working should be done on this question paper.

---

<!-- Page 2 -->

2 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
1 Students find a small organism in a pond. They catch it and pu t it into a large jar of water. They 
see that the organism swims away from light. It lays some eggs before it is put back into the 
pond. 
 
Which characteristics of living things did the students see in this organism? 
A excretion, growth and respiration 
B growth, nutrition and sensitivity 
C movement, reproduction and sensitivity 
D movement, reproduction and respiration 
 
 
2 Which description of a species is correct? 
A a group of organisms living at the same time 
B a group of organisms living in the same area 
C a group of organisms that can reproduce to produce fertile off spring 
D a group of organisms that have adaptive features 
 
 
3 The table shows the number of animals collected in a sample fr om a woodland and the groups to 
which they belong. 
 
animal group number in sample 
arachnids 10 
crustaceans 8 
insects 80 
myriapods 7 
 
How many of the animals, in total, are arthropods with six or eight legs? 
A 15 B 88 C 90 D 98 
 
 
4 Some vertebrates have body hair. 
 
Which group do these vertebrates belong to? 
A amphibian 
B b i r d  
C m a m m a l  
D reptile

---

<!-- Page 3 -->

3  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24 [Turn over 
5 The diagram shows two guard cells from a leaf. 
 
Which labelled part would also be found in sperm cells? 
 
A
B
C
D  
 
 
6 The photograph shows part of a cross-section of a root. 
 
xylem
root hair
 
 
The root hair and the xylem are part of the same 
A cell and organism. 
 B cell and tissue. 
 C organ and organism. 
 D tissue and organ. 
 
 
7 Which formula is correct for calculations involving image size , actual size and magnification? 
A actual size = image size  magnification 
B image size = magnification  actual size 
C magnification = actual size  image size 
D magnification = image size  actual size

---

<!-- Page 4 -->

4 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
8 Which statements about diffusion are correct? 
 
1 Diffusion is the net movement of particles from a higher to a  lower concentration. 
2 Diffusion is the net movement of particles only across cell m embranes. 
3 Diffusion requires energy from respiration. 
 
A 1, 2 and 3 B 1 and 2 only C 1 only D 2 and 3 only 
 
 
9 What is the name of the process in which water moves through a  partially permeable membrane? 
A active transport 
B evaporation 
C o s m o s i s  
D transpiration 
 
 
10 A sample of food is tested with different chemical substances.  
 
The table shows the results. 
 
chemical used to test 
the food sample 
final colour of 
the sample 
iodine solution yellow-brown 
biuret purple 
DCPIP colourless 
 
Which nutrients does the sample of food contain? 
A protein and vitamin C 
B protein only 
C starch and reducing sugar 
D starch and vitamin C

---

<!-- Page 5 -->

5  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24 [Turn over 
11 The diagram shows an experiment on the digestion of the protei n in egg albumen by protease. 
 
The protease was taken from a human stomach. 
 
In which test-tube will protein be digested most quickly? 
 
A B C D
egg albumen
+
protease
egg albumen
+
dilute
hydrochloric
acid
egg albumen
+
dilute
hydrochloric
acid
+
protease
egg albumen
+
dilute
hydrochloric
acid
+
boiled protease
water-bath
at 37 °C
 
 
 
12 The diagram represents the shape of an enzyme molecule. 
 
active site
 
 
With which substrate would this enzyme most easily form an enzyme–substrate complex? 
 
AB C D

---

<!-- Page 6 -->

6 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
13 The diagram shows an experiment to investigate photosynthesis.  
 
light
start
light
finish
gas
aquatic plant
 
 
What is the most abundant gas present at the top of the tube at the end of the experiment? 
A carbon dioxide 
B methane 
C water vapour 
D oxygen 
 
 
14 The graph shows how the percentage of protein found in potatoes  was affected by the 
concentration of nitrate fertiliser added to the crop when it was growing. 
 
percentage
of protein
in potatoes
concentration of
nitrate fertiliser added
 
 
Using the information in the graph, which molecule do the potat oes make more of when the 
concentration of nitrate fertiliser increases? 
A amino acids 
B cellulose 
C f a t  
D s t a r c h

---

<!-- Page 7 -->

7  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24 [Turn over 
15 Which food would add more fibre as part of a balanced diet? 
A black beans 
B cheese 
C eggs 
D tuna fish 
 
 
16 The diagram shows the human digestive system. 
 
Which letter represents the rectum? 
 
A B
CD
 
 
 
17 The bacterium Salmonella enterica  can cause severe food poisoning, and the lining of the 
alimentary canal may be damaged. This damage affects the absorption of digested food. 
 
Which region of the alimentary canal is most affected by this type of food poisoning? 
A colon 
B ileum 
C oesophagus 
D stomach

---

<!-- Page 8 -->

8 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
18 In which part of the alimentary canal is the most water absorbed? 
A colon 
B rectum 
C small intestine 
D stomach 
 
 
19 The diagram shows the pathway of water molecules through a lea f and out to the environment. 
 
mesophyll cell  process X  air space  process Y  stomata 
 
Which statements are correct? 
 
1 Process X is active transport. 
2 Process X is evaporation. 
3 Process Y is diffusion. 
4 Process Y is osmosis. 
 
A 1 and 3 B 1 and 4 C 2 and 3 D 2 and 4 
 
 
20 The diagram shows blood vessels entering and leaving some orga ns in the human body. 
 
lungs
heart
kidney
1
3
2
4
 
 
Which row identifies the pulmonary artery and the renal vein? 
 
 pulmonary 
artery renal vein 
A 1 3 
B 1 4 
C 2 3 
D 2 4

---

<!-- Page 9 -->

9  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24 [Turn over 
21 When a pathogen enters the blood, the number of white blood ce lls increases. 
 
Some possible reasons why this happens are listed. 
 
1 It increases the number of antibodies. 
2 It increases the transport of oxygen. 
3 It increases phagocytosis. 
4 It increases the number of platelets. 
 
Which reasons are correct? 
A 1 and 3 B 1 and 4 C 2 and 3 D 2 and 4 
 
 
22 The graph shows how waste is disposed of in three cities. 
 
percentage
of total
waste
80
60
40
20
0
city 1 city 2 city 3
key
landfill
burning
recycling
composting
 
 
Which statement describes waste disposal in all of the three cities? 
A Burning is the second most common form of waste disposal. 
B Landfill is the main form of waste disposal. 
C More waste is burnt than recycled. 
D Recycling and burning together are the main forms of waste dis posal. 
 
 
23 Which structure connects directly to the alveoli? 
A bronchus 
B bronchiole 
C l a r y n x  
D trachea

---

<!-- Page 10 -->

10 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
24 What is the equation for aerobic respiration? 
A glucose + carbon dioxide  oxygen + water 
B glucose + oxygen  carbon dioxide + water 
C water + carbon dioxide  glucose + oxygen 
D water + oxygen  glucose + carbon dioxide 
 
 
25 Which hormone is secreted by the pancreas? 
A adrenaline 
B insulin 
C oestrogen 
D testosterone 
 
 
26 What is an example of phototropism? 
A a chemical produced by a plant 
B a painful sensation in response to a stimulus 
C the growth of a plant root towards the centre of the Earth 
D the growth of a plant shoot towards light

---

<!-- Page 11 -->

11  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24 [Turn over 
27 The graph shows changes in the resistance of the bacterium Escherichia coli to two different 
antibiotics between 2005 and 2023. 
 
25
20
15
10
5
0
2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 2023
year
percentage of
bacteria resistant
to an antibiotic
antibiotic 1
antibiotic 2
 
 
Which statement describes the changes that occurred between 2005 and 2023? 
A Between 2010 and 2015, the percentage of bacteria resistant to  antibiotic 2 increased by 6%. 
B Between 2011 and 2016, the percentage of bacteria resistant to  antibiotic 1 continually 
increased. 
C Between 2016 and 2023, the percentage of bacteria resistant to  antibiotic 2 continually 
decreased. 
D Between 2020 and 2022, the percentage of bacteria resistant to  antibiotic 2 decreased. 
 
 
28 The nuclei of which two structures fuse during fertilisation? 
A two eggs 
B t w o  e m b r y o s  
C two gametes 
D two zygotes 
 
 
29 Which statements about sexual reproduction in plants are corre ct? 
 
1 Anthers in wind-pollinated flowers are inside the flower. 
2 Pollen grains in insect-pollinated flowers are large and stic ky. 
3 The stigma in insect-pollinated flowers is outside the flower . 
 
A 1 and 2 B 1 only C 2 only D 3 only

---

<!-- Page 12 -->

12 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
30 Which structure is found in both animals and plants? 
A cornea 
B o v a r y  
C sepal 
D s t a m e n  
 
 
31 Which sex chromosomes are present in a human sperm cell? 
A both X and Y chromosomes 
B either X or Y chromosomes 
C only X chromosomes 
D only Y chromosomes 
 
 
32 What are alleles made of? 
A amino acids 
B DNA 
C genes 
D protein

---

<!-- Page 13 -->

13  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24 [Turn over 
33 The graph shows the percentage of a population with different phenotypes for the same 
characteristic. 
 
percentage of
the population
1 2 3 4
phenotypes for
characteristic X  
 
Which characteristic in humans is represented by X? 
A ABO blood groups 
B arm length 
C height 
D m a s s  
 
 
34 Energy transfers in an ecosystem are listed. 
 
 energy transfer type of energy 
1 Sun to plant light 
2 plant to animal chemical 
3 animal to animal chemical 
 
Which transfers are correct? 
A 1, 2 and 3 B 1 and 2 only C 1 and 3 only D 2 and 3 only

---

<!-- Page 14 -->

14 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
35 Which diagram shows the correct order in a food chain? 
 
carnivore
herbivore
producer
producer
A
B
C
D
carnivore
herbivore
herbivore
herbivore
herbivore
producer
carnivore
herbivore
producer
carnivore
carnivore
carnivore
 
 
 
36 Which process removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere? 
A combustion 
B decomposition 
C photosynthesis 
D respiration 
 
 
37 The graph shows how the population of the world has increased over time. 
 
1700 1800
year
1900 2000
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
world
population
/
 billions
P
 
 
Which growth curve phase is represented by region P? 
A death phase 
B exponential (log) phase 
C lag phase 
D stationary phase

---

<!-- Page 15 -->

15  
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
38 How do herbicides help to increase food production? 
A by increasing biodiversity 
B by killing insect pests 
C by providing nutrients 
D by reducing competition 
 
 
39 Which product of anaerobic respiration in yeast is used as a b iofuel? 
A carbon dioxide 
B ethanol 
C glucose 
D oxygen 
 
 
40 Which statement describes genetic modification? 
A changing the genetic material of an organism 
B changing the genetic material of plants only 
C producing new organisms through fertilisation 
D selective breeding of organisms

---

<!-- Page 16 -->

16 
 
Permission to reproduce items where third-party owned material protected by copyright is included has been sought and cleared where possible. Every 
reasonable effort has been made by the publisher (UCLES) to tra ce copyright holders, but if any items requiring clearance have  unwittingly been included, the 
publisher will be pleased to make amends at the earliest possib le opportunity. 
 
To avoid the issue of disclosure of answer-related information to candidates, all copyright acknowledgements are reproduced on line in the Cambridge 
Assessment International Education Copyright Acknowledgements B ooklet. This is produced for each series of examinations and is  freely available to download 
at www.cambridgeinternational.org after the live examination se ries. 
 
Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambrid ge Assessment. Cambridge Assessment is the brand name of the Un iversity of Cambridge 
Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES), which is a department of the University of Cambridge. 
 
© UCLES 2024 0610/13/O/N/24  
BLANK PAGE