# 0610_s24_qp_13

_Converted from `0610_s24_qp_13.pdf` on 2026-02-25_

---

<!-- Page 1 -->

This document has 16 pages. Any blank pages are indicated. 
06_0610_13_2024_1.9a 
© UCLES 2024 [Turn over
*4574109388*
Cambridge IGCSE™ 
BIOLOGY 0610/13 
Paper 1 Multiple Choice (Core)  May/June 2024 
45 minutes 
You must an
swer on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
You will need: Multiple choice answer sheet 
Soft clean eraser 
Soft pencil (type B or HB is recommended) 
INSTRUCTIONS  
 There are forty questions on this paper. Answer all questions.
 For each question there are four possible answers A, B, C and D. Choose the one you consider correct
and record your choice in soft pencil on the multiple choice answer sheet.
 Follow the instructions on the multiple choice answer sheet.
 Write in soft pencil.
 Write your name, centre number and candidate number on the multiple choice answer sheet in the
spaces provided unless this has been done for you.
 Do not use correction fluid.
 Do not write on any bar codes.
 You may use a calculator.
INFORMATION 
 The total mark for this paper is 40.
 Each correct answer will score one mark.
 Any rough working should be done on this question paper.

---

<!-- Page 2 -->

The diagram shows what happened in an experiment with plant seedlings.1
start
light
next day
light
Which characteristic of living things made the seedlings grow towards the light?
excretionA
nutritionB
respirationC
sensitivityD
Which structure or substance is found in a plant root?2
dentineA
plateletB
ventricleC
xylemD
The diagram shows an arthropod.3
Which group of arthropods does it belong to?
arachnidsA
crustaceansB
insectsC
myriapodsD
06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
2

---

<!-- Page 3 -->

Which structure is present in plant cells but absent from bacterial cells?4
cell membraneA
cell wallB
cytoplasmC
nucleusD
Which cell is adapted for
swimming?5
[Turn over06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
3
DC
BA
NOT TO
SCALE
6 A pollen grain was viewed with a microscope using ×500 magnification.
The image size of the pollen grain was measured as 75 mm.
Which calculation would give the actual size of the pollen grain in millimetres?
A B C D

---

<!-- Page 4 -->

Which graph represents the effect of increasing temperature on the rate of diffusion?7
rate of
diffusion
temperature
A
rate of
diffusion
temperature
B
rate of
diffusion
temperature
C
rate of
diffusion
temperature
D
Which characteristics are correct for both osmosis and diffusion?8
are
energy-consuming
processes
require a
concentration gradient
require a partially
permeable membrane
key✗✓✓A
✓ = yes✓✗✓B
✗ = no✗✓✗C
✓✗✗D
06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
4

---

<!-- Page 5 -->

Which row describes active transport?9
using energy from
respiration
direction of movement of particles
through a membrane
noagainst the concentration gradientA
yesdown the concentration gradientB
yesagainst the concentration gradientC
nodown the concentration gradientD
What is a correct statement about biological molecules?10
Biuret reagent is used to test for reducing sugars.A
Glycogen is made of smaller glycerol molecules.B
Oils contain the chemical elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen.C
Protein is made of smaller amino acid molecules.D
Enzyme X digests starch in the duodenum.
The same volumes of starch suspension and enzyme X were put into four test-tubes, A, B, C and
D. Each test-tube was kept at a different pH and temperature, as shown in the table.
In which test-tube will starch digestion be the quickest?
11
temperature /°CpH
202A
352B
207C
357D
[Turn over06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
5

---

<!-- Page 6 -->

The diagram represents enzyme action in a chemical reaction.12
+
W
+
YX
What are parts W, X and Y in this chemical reaction?
substrateproductenzyme
YXWA
YWXB
WYXC
XWYD
Aquatic plants were placed in two test-tubes. Each test-tube was sealed to prevent the entry or 
exit of gases. One test-tube was kept in the light and one test-tube was kept in the dark.
What needs to be added to the test-tubes to detect any differences in gas exchange?
13
Benedict’s solutionA
biuret reagentB
hydrogencarbonate indicatorC
iodine solutionD
Which part of a leaf contains the highest concentration of chloroplasts?14
lower epidermisA
palisade layerB
upper epidermisC
vascular bundleD
06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
6

---

<!-- Page 7 -->

Which four organs are part of the digestive system?15
lung, liver, salivary gland, pancreasA
kidney, liver, colon, ureterB
pancreas, liver, uterus, gall bladderC
salivary gland, liver, gall bladder, pancreasD
What should be increased in the diet of a person suffering from constipation?16
fatsA
fibre (roughage)B
ironC
proteinD
The diagram shows part of the small intestine and an associated blood vessel.17
small
intestine
blood
vessel
What is represented by the arrow?
absorption of sugarsA
assimilation of sugarsB
digestion of sugarsC
ingestion of sugarsD
[Turn over06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
7

---

<!-- Page 8 -->

The diagram shows the human alimentary canal.
Which
labelled part absorbs the most water?
18
D A
C
B
Which description of molar teeth is correct?19
pointed
teeth used to tear foodA
sharp-edged teeth to cut foodB
teeth with a jagged surface to bite foodC
teeth with a large surface to grind foodD
Which organs are involved in physical digestion?20
stomachoesophagusmouth
key✗✓✓A
✓ =
yes✓✗✓B
✗ = no✗✓✗C
✓✗✗D
06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
8

---

<!-- Page 9 -->

What is produced by the action of lipase on fats?21
amino acids1
fatty
acids2
glycerol3
2 onlyD2 and 3C1 onlyB1 and 3A
Where are most nutrients absorbed in the digestive system?22
colonA
oesophagusB
small intestineC
stomachD
The diagrams show a section through a root and a section through a stem.23
1 2
root stem
3
4
In which tissues are amino acids transported?
2
and 4D2 and 3C1 and 4B1 and 3A
Which diagram represents a cell responsible for the transport of oxygen?24
A B C D
[Turn over06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
9
NOT TO
SCALE

---

<!-- Page 10 -->

Transmissible diseases are transmitted when a pathogen is passed from one host to another.
What is an example of direct contact?
25
breathing in pathogensA
contact with blood or other body fluidsB
contact with contaminated surfacesC
eating or handling contaminated foodD
The diagram shows the breathing system in humans.
Which labelled part is surrounded by blood capillaries for gas exchange?
26
A
B
C
D
What are the products of aerobic respiration in plants?27
alcohol and carbon dioxideA
carbon dioxide and lactic acidB
carbon dioxide and waterC
lactic acid onlyD
06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
10

---

<!-- Page 11 -->

The diagram shows some structures associated with human excretion.
Which structure excretes urea?
28
A
B
C
D
Which organ secretes insulin and how is it transported?29
insulin transported byorgan that secretes insulin
bloodadrenal glandsA
nervous systemadrenal glandsB
bloodpancreasC
nervous systempancreasD
[Turn over06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
11

---

<!-- Page 12 -->

In an experiment, bacteria were grown on agar. Four paper discs, A, B, C and D, were placed on
top of the agar. Each paper disc contained a different antibiotic.
The diagram shows the agar after 48 hours. The clear areas show where bacteria are not growing.
Which antibiotic are the bacteria most resistant to?
30
A B
C D
The list shows secondary sexual characteristics.31
Hair grows on the face.1
Hips become wider.2
V
oice becomes deeper.3
Which secondary sexual characteristics are caused by testosterone?
2 and 3 onlyD1 and 3 onlyC1 and 2 onlyB1, 2 and 3A
06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
12
A
= area showing
   bacterial growth
= area with no bacteria
= paper disc
key

---

<!-- Page 13 -->

The diagram shows a flower seen from above.32
Use the key to find the name of the family to which it belongs.
go to 2four petals1
go to 3five petals
A Scrophulariaceaetwo stamens2
B Brassicaceaesix stamens
C Caryophyllaceaepetals joined3
D Rosaceaepetals separate
Which statement about a heterozygous individual is correct?33
is pure-breedingA
has two identical allelesB
has a dominant allele and a recessive alleleC
expresses the recessive allele in its phenotypeD
What is an example of continuous variation?34
ABO blood groups in humansA
body mass in humansB
seed shape in pea plantsC
seed colour in pea plantsD
[Turn over06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
13

---

<!-- Page 14 -->

A particular animal species only eats plants.
What is a description of this animal species?
35
a carnivoreA
a primary consumerB
a producerC
a secondary consumerD
In the carbon cycle, which process uses carbon dioxide?36
combustionA
decompositionB
respirationC
photosynthesisD
Which statements about deforestation are correct?37
Deforestation causes an increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide.1
Deforestation causes an increase in biodiversity.2
Deforestation causes an increase in the loss of soil.3
3 onlyD2 and 3 onlyC1 and 3 onlyB1 and 2 onlyA
Which two gases enhance the greenhouse effect?38
carbon dioxide and methaneA
carbon dioxide and nitrogenB
methane and oxygenC
nitrogen and oxygenD
06_0610_13_2024_1.9©
UCLES 2024
14

---

<!-- Page 15 -->

Which row shows whether the two natural resources are always managed sustainably?39
using wood
from forests
using fish
stocks
yesyesA
noyesB
yesnoC
nonoD
Which features make bacteria useful in biotechnology?40
features of bacteria
have a rapid 
reproduction rate
make complex
moleculeshave cell walls
✗✓✓A
✗✗✓B
✓✓✗C
✓✗✗D
06_0610_13_2024_1.9© UCLES 2024
15
key
✓ = feature is useful in biotechnology
✗ = feature is not useful in biotechnology

---

<!-- Page 16 -->

16 
© UCLES 2024 06_0610_13_2024_1.9 
BLANK PAGE 
Permission to reproduce items where third-party owned material protected by copyright is included has been sought and cleared where possible. Every 
reasonable effort has been made by the publisher (UCLES) to tra ce copyright holders, but if any items requiring clearance have  unwittingly been included, the 
publisher will be pleased to make amends at the earliest possible opportunity. 
To avoid the issue of disclosure of answer-related information to candidates, all copyright acknowledgements are reproduced on line in the Cambridge 
Assessment International Education Copyright Acknowledgements Booklet. This is produced for each series of examinations and is freely available to download 
at www.cambridgeinternational.org after the live examination series. 
Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambrid ge Assessment. Cambridge Assessment is the brand name of the Un iversity of Cambridge 
Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES), which is a department of the University of Cambridge.