# 0970_w24_qp_12

_Converted from `0970_w24_qp_12.pdf` on 2026-02-25_

---

<!-- Page 1 -->

This document has 16 pages. Any blank pages are indicated. 
IB24 11_0970_12/FP  
© UCLES 2024 
 [Turn over
 
*4041203101*
Cambridge IGCSE™(9–1) 
  
 
BIOLOGY 0970/12 
 
Paper 1 Multiple Choice (Core)  October/November 2024 
 
 45 minutes 
 
You must answer on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
 
You will need: Multiple choice answer sheet 
 Soft clean eraser 
 Soft pencil (type B or HB is recommended) 
  
 
INSTRUCTIONS  
 There are forty questions on this paper. Answer all questions.  
 For each question there are four possible answers A, B, C and D. Choose the one you consider correct 
and record your choice in soft pencil on the multiple choice answer sheet.  
 Follow the instructions on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
 Write in soft pencil. 
 Write your name, centre number and candidate number on the multiple choice answer sheet in the 
spaces provided unless this has been done for you. 
 Do not use correction fluid. 
 Do not write on any bar codes. 
 You may use a calculator. 
 
 
INFORMATION 
 The total mark for this paper is 40. 
 Each correct answer will score one mark. 
 Any rough working should be done on this question paper.

---

<!-- Page 2 -->

2 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
1 Which type of cell moves mucus? 
A ciliated cell 
B egg cell 
C guard cell 
D root hair cell 
 
 
2 A student exposed a fly larva to light and temperature gradien ts. 
 
They lit the area from one side and made one side of the area warmer than the other. 
 
They traced the path of the fly larva’s movement. 
 
darklight
fly larva
path taken by
the fly larva
warm
cold
 
 
Which statement describes the response of the fly larva? 
A The fly larva does not respond to temperature or light intensity. 
B The fly larva moves away from a higher temperature and a higher light intensity. 
C The fly larva moves away from a higher temperature and towards a higher light intensity. 
D The fly larva moves towards a higher temperature and away from a higher light intensity.

---

<!-- Page 3 -->

3  
 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24 [Turn over 
3 The table shows the scientific names and the common names of f our plants. 
 
scientific name common name 
Althaea officinalis marsh mallow 
Hottonia palustris water violet 
Viola palustris marsh violet 
Viola tricolor wild pansy 
 
Which word is a genus name? 
A marsh 
B palustris 
C Viola 
D violet 
 
 
4 The diagram shows an arthropod. 
 
 
 
Which group does this arthropod belong to? 
A arachnid 
B crustacean 
C insect 
D myriapod 
 
 
5 The diagram shows a plant cell. 
 
Which letter indicates the location of the cell membrane? 
 D
A B
C

---

<!-- Page 4 -->

4 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
6 Which magnification formula is correct? 
A magnification = actual size ÷ image size 
B magnification = actual size + image size 
C magnification = image size ÷ actual size 
D magnification = image size  actual size 
 
 
7 A frog is an animal. The skin of a frog is permeable to oxygen  and carbon dioxide. 
 
Which directions will have a net diffusion of oxygen and carbon  d i o x i d e  w h e n  a  f r o g  s w i m s  i n  
pond water? 
 
 from the frog 
into the water 
from the water 
into the frog 
A carbon dioxide oxygen 
B carbon dioxide and oxygen no movement 
C oxygen carbon dioxide 
D no movement carbon dioxide and oxygen 
 
 
8 Which statement about plant support is correct? 
A The pressure of water inside the cells presses inwards on the cell walls. 
B The pressure of water inside the cells presses outwards on the cell walls. 
C The pressure of water outside the cells presses inwards on the cell walls. 
D The pressure of water outside the cells presses outwards on the cell walls. 
 
 
9 What is a correct statement about active transport? 
A Particles move into cells, using energy released by photosynthesis. 
B Particles move across a cell wall without using energy. 
C Particles move from a region of higher concentration to a region of lower concentration. 
D Particles move across a cell membrane, using energy released by respiration. 
 
 
10 A sample of food was tested with biuret reagent. 
 
Which colour would be seen if the food sample contained protein? 
A blue-black 
B brick red 
C yellow-brown 
D purple

---

<!-- Page 5 -->

5  
 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24 [Turn over 
11 Which elements are found in fats? 
A carbon, hydrogen and iron 
B carbon, hydrogen and oxygen 
C carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen 
D carbon, oxygen and nitrogen 
 
 
12 Which statements about enzymes are correct? 
 
1 Enzymes are biological catalysts. 
2 Enzymes are carbohydrates. 
3 Enzymes have an active site. 
 
A 1 and 2 B 1 and 3 C 2 and 3 D 3  o n l y  
 
 
13 The equation for photosynthesis is shown. 
 
......1...... + ......2......  glucose + ......3...... 
 
Which words correctly complete gaps 1, 2 and 3? 
 
 1  2  3  
A carbon dioxide light oxygen 
B carbon dioxide water oxygen 
C oxygen light carbon dioxide 
D oxygen water carbon dioxide 
 
 
14 Which carbohydrate is used to make cell walls? 
A cellulose 
B glycogen 
C s t a r c h  
D s u c r o s e

---

<!-- Page 6 -->

6 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
15 The diagram shows a cross-section of a leaf. 
 
X
Y
Z  
 
Which row shows the correct labels? 
 
 palisade 
mesophyll cell 
spongy 
mesophyll cell stoma 
A X Y Z 
B X Z Y 
C Y X Z 
D Y Z X 
 
 
16 The table shows some of the nutrients found in yoghurt. 
 
nutrient content per 100
 g  
of yoghurt / g 
carbohydrate 6.90 
protein 4.80 
fat 1.50 
calcium 0.16 
 
One serving size of yoghurt is 150 g. 
 
One of the nutrients in the yoghurt is required for healthy bones and teeth. 
 
What is the mass of this nutrient in one serving of yoghurt? 
A 0.24 g B 2.25 g C 7.20 g D 10.35 g

---

<!-- Page 7 -->

7  
 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24 [Turn over 
17 The diagram shows the alimentary canal and some of the associa ted organs in a cat. The 
alimentary canal of a cat is similar to that of a human. 
 
1
4 3
2
 
 
Which row identifies the structures labelled 1–4? 
 
 1  2  3  4  
A oesophagus anus large intestine liver 
B oesophagus large intestine small intestine stomach 
C trachea anus large intestine stomach 
D trachea large intestine small intestine liver 
 
 
18 The diagram shows the four types of teeth in a human jaw. 
 
3
1 4 2
314 2
top view
side view
 
 
Which row correctly identifies all four types of teeth? 
 
 1  2  3  4  
A canine incisor molar premolar 
B canine molar incisor premolar 
C premolar incisor molar canine 
D premolar molar incisor canine

---

<!-- Page 8 -->

8 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
19 What are the products of protein digestion in the stomach? 
A amino acids 
B fatty acids 
C glycerol 
D proteases 
 
 
20 Where is water absorbed? 
A colon and small intestine 
B large intestine only 
C gall bladder and colon 
D small intestine only 
 
 
21 The diagram shows a cross-section of a stem. 
 
R
S
 
 
Which statement correctly describes the location and function of phloem? 
A Structure R is phloem and transports amino acids and starch. 
B Structure S is phloem and transports amino acids and starch. 
C Structure R is phloem and transports amino acids and sucrose. 
D Structure S is phloem and transports amino acids and sucrose. 
 
 
22 Some environmental factors are listed. 
 
1 carbon dioxide concentration 
2 temperature 
3 oxygen concentration 
4 wind speed 
 
Which factors directly affect the rate of transpiration? 
A 1 and 3 B 1 and 4 C 2 and 3 D 2 and 4

---

<!-- Page 9 -->

9  
 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24 [Turn over 
23 The diagram shows part of a blood vessel. 
 
key
direction of
blood flow
 
 
Which evidence in the diagram shows that it is a vein and not an artery? 
A There is a valve inside the blood vessel. 
B Blood is flowing in an upwards direction. 
C The blood vessel has a relatively small lumen. 
D The blood vessel has a relatively thick wall. 
 
 
24 The photomicrograph shows two blood cells. 
 
 
 
What is the function of these cells? 
A to carry out phagocytosis 
B to produce antibodies 
C to transport oxygen 
D to transport vitamins

---

<!-- Page 10 -->

10 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
25 Which row matches a gas in expired air with a substance that c an be used to test for the 
presence of that gas? 
 
 gas present in 
expired air test substance 
A carbon dioxide DCPIP 
B carbon dioxide limewater 
C oxygen DCPIP 
D oxygen limewater 
 
 
26 Which graph shows how temperature affects the rate of anaerobi c respiration in yeast? 
 
temperature / °C
A
anaerobic
respiration
rate
temperature / °C
B
anaerobic
respiration
rate
temperature / °C
C
anaerobic
respiration
rate
temperature / °C
D
anaerobic
respiration
rate
0 50 0 50
0 50 0 50
 
 
 
27 What is the pathway of a reflex arc from the receptor to the e ffector? 
A motor neurone  relay neurone  sensory neurone 
B motor neurone  sensory neurone  relay neurone 
C sensory neurone  motor neurone  relay neurone 
D sensory neurone  relay neurone  motor neurone

---

<!-- Page 11 -->

11  
 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24 [Turn over 
28 What is an effect of adrenaline secretion? 
A decreased breathing rate 
B decreased pupil diameter 
C development of secondary sexual characteristics 
D increased heart rate 
 
 
29 What is phototropism? 
A absorbing mineral ions 
B absorbing water 
C directional growth in response to gravity 
D directional growth in response to light 
 
 
30 A gardener wants to grow some new plants that are identical to  plants that she already has. 
 
Which method of reproduction is used, and how many parents are needed for her to grow some 
new identical plants? 
 
 method of 
reproduction 
number of 
parents needed 
A asexual one 
B asexual two 
C sexual one 
D sexual two 
 
 
31 What must always be present for seeds to germinate? 
A chlorophyll 
B light 
C soil 
D water 
 
 
32 What is a flagellum? 
A a ball of cells that implants into the lining of the uterus 
B a cell structure that releases energy 
C a cell that forms after the sperm cell fuses with the egg cell  
D an adaptive feature used for movement of sperm cells

---

<!-- Page 12 -->

12 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
33 Which word describes a fertilised cell? 
A acrosome 
B e m b r y o  
C gamete 
D zygote 
 
 
34 Which secondary sexual characteristic is caused by both testos terone and oestrogen? 
A breast development 
B changes in body shape 
C growth of facial hair 
D sudden deepening of voice 
 
 
35 Some ways that diseases can be transmitted are listed. 
 
1 airborne droplets 
2 blood and needles 
3 food and drink 
4 unprotected sex 
 
Which ways can transmit HIV? 
A 1 and 3 B 1  o n l y  C 2 and 4 D 4  o n l y  
 
 
36 What do genes code for? 
A fats 
B proteins 
C starch 
D sugars

---

<!-- Page 13 -->

13  
 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
37 When white-flowered pea plants are crossed with red-flowered p ea plants, the offspring plants all 
have red flowers. 
 
If these offspring plants are crossed, the next generation of p lants contains both red-flowered and 
white-flowered plants. 
 
Which statement explains this? 
A The allele for red flowers is dominant, and the offspring plan ts are heterozygous. 
B The allele for red flowers is dominant, and the offspring plan ts are homozygous. 
C The allele for red flowers is recessive, and the offspring pla nts are heterozygous. 
D The allele for red flowers is recessive, and the offspring pla nts are homozygous. 
 
 
38 What is a description of an adaptive feature? 
A an inherited characteristic that helps an organism to survive and reproduce 
B the differences between individuals of the same species 
C the genetic make-up of an organism 
D the transmission of information from generation to generation 
 
 
39 Which diagram shows a pyramid of biomass for the food chain sh own? 
 
tree caterpillar bird
key
 
 
 
AB
CD
 
 
 
40 Which statement about conservation is correct? 
A Captive breeding programmes can be used to conserve endangered species. 
B Climate change is reducing the number of species that are endangered. 
C Habitat protection increases the number of species that are endangered. 
D Sustainable resources are those that are used more rapidly than they are replaced.

---

<!-- Page 14 -->

14 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
BLANK PAGE

---

<!-- Page 15 -->

15  
 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
BLANK PAGE

---

<!-- Page 16 -->

16 
 
Permission to reproduce items where third-party owned material protected by copyright is included has been sought and cleared where possible. Every 
reasonable effort has been made by the publisher (UCLES) to tra ce copyright holders, but if any items requiring clearance have  unwittingly been included, the 
publisher will be pleased to make amends at the earliest possible opportunity. 
 
To avoid the issue of disclosure of answer-related information to candidates, all copyright acknowledgements are reproduced on line in the Cambridge 
Assessment International Education Copyright Acknowledgements Booklet. This is produced for each series of examinations and is freely available to download 
at www.cambridgeinternational.org after the live examination series. 
 
Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambrid ge Assessment. Cambridge Assessment is the brand name of the Un iversity of Cambridge 
Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES), which is a department of the University of Cambridge. 
 
© UCLES 2024 0970/12/O/N/24  
BLANK PAGE