# 0970_s24_qp_12

_Converted from `0970_s24_qp_12.pdf` on 2026-02-25_

---

<!-- Page 1 -->

This document has 20 pages. Any blank pages are indicated. 
06_0970_12_2024_1.1 
© UCLES 2024 [Turn over
*9621132218*
Cambridge IGCSE™(9–1) 
BIOLOGY 0970/12 
Paper 1 Multiple Choice (Core)  May/June 2024 
45 minutes  
You must answer on the multiple choice answer sheet. 
You will need: Multiple choice answer sheet 
Soft clean eraser 
Soft pencil (type B or HB is recommended) 
INSTRUCTIONS  
 There are forty questions on this paper. Answer all questions.
 For each question there are four possible answers A, B, C and D. Choose the one you consider correct
and record your choice in soft pencil on t
he multiple choice answer sheet.
 Follow the instructions on the multiple choice answer sheet.
 Write in soft pencil.
 Write your name, centre number and candidate number on the multiple choice answer sheet in the
spa
ces provided unless this has been done for you.
 Do not use correction fluid.
 Do not write on any bar codes.
 You may use a calculator.
INFORMATION 
 The total mark for this paper is 40.
 Each correct answer will score one mark.
 Any rough working should be done on this question paper.

---

<!-- Page 2 -->

Some yeast, sugar and water are mixed in a test-tube. The diagrams show the test-tube at the start
and after one hour.
1
at start after one hour
yeast, sugar
and water
bubbles
of gas
Which process causes this change?
growthA
reproductionB
respirationC
sensitivityD
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
2

---

<!-- Page 3 -->

The diagram shows an animal.2
Use the key to identify the animal.
go to 2has two wings1
go to 3has four wings
Ahas antennae much shorter than legs2
Bhas antennae about the same length as legs
Chas feathery antennae3
Dhas smooth antennae
Donkeys and zebras are different species. They can breed to produce an animal called a zedonk.
Zedonks are not fertile.
Which statement is correct?
3
Zedonks and donkeys are the same species.A
Zedonks and zebras are the same species.B
Zedonks are a species.C
Zedonks are not a species.D
[Turn over
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
3

---

<!-- Page 4 -->

Crabs are arthropods with 10 jointed legs and two pairs of antennae.
T o whicharthropod
class do they belong?
4
arachnidsA
crustaceansB
insectsC
myriapodsD
Heart muscle cells have a high rate of metabolism.
Which structure do they require to be present in high numbers?
5
chloroplastsA
mitochondriaB
cell wallsC
vacuolesD
The diagram shows a fly.6
X Y
×104D
The line XY represents the length of the wing.
The length of line XY is 26 mm.
The actual size of the wing between X and Y is 4 mm. 
What is the magnification of the diagram?
A ×0.15 B ×6.5 C ×22
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
4

---

<!-- Page 5 -->

What is an example of diffusion?7
dust
particles being moved by ciliated cells in the tracheaA
oxygen molecules moving into a red blood cell in the lungsB
pollen grains moving from anthers to stigmas in the windC
red blood cells moving in a blood capillary in a muscleD
The diagram shows apparatus used to investigate osmosis.
The volumes of solutions A, B, C and D were the same at the start of the investigation.
After one hour, the solutions had moved up the glass tubes.
Which solution was the most concentrated at the start of the investigation?
8
glass
tube
partially
permeable
membrane
glass
tube
glass
tube
partially
permeable
membrane
glass
tube
water
solution
A
solution
B
solution
C
solution
D
Which row describes active transport?9
movement through
a cell membrane
uses energy
from respiration
movement of
water
nonoyesA
yesnoyesB
noyesnoC
yesyesnoD
[Turn over06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
5

---

<!-- Page 6 -->

Iodine solution is added to a food sample that contains starch.
What is the colour of the sample after the iodine solution has been added?
10
blue-blackA
purpleB
redC
yellowD
Which graph shows the effect of temperature on the activity of an enzyme?11
temperature / °C
enzyme 
activity 
A B 
C D 
0 50 100 
enzyme 
activity 
0 50 100 
temperature / °C
enzyme 
activity 
0 50 100 
temperature / °C
enzyme 
activity 
0 50 100 
temperature / °C
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
6

---

<!-- Page 7 -->

Which of these statements about enzymes are correct?12
enzymes are proteins1
enzymes are used up during chemical reactions2
enzymes speed up metabolic reactions3
2 and 3 onlyD1 and 3 onlyC1 and 2 onlyB1, 2 and 3A
The diagram shows a cross-section of part of a leaf.
Which cell controls the rate of gas exchange?
13
A
B
C
D
[Turn over06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
7

---

<!-- Page 8 -->

The diagram shows two cells.14
Which process happens in only one of these cells?
controlling the chemical reactions in the cellA
controlling the movement of substances into the cellB
making starch inside the cellC
using glucose inside the cellD
Which organ is part of the digestive system?15
colonA
larynxB
vena cavaC
ureterD
The diagram shows the human alimentary canal.
Where is most digested food absorbed into the blood?
16
A
B
D
C
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
8

---

<!-- Page 9 -->

Which layer is dentine in the diagram of a human tooth?17
A
D
C
B
The diagram shows a human jaw.
Which labelled tooth is an incisor?
18
B
C
D
A
[Turn over06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
9

---

<!-- Page 10 -->

Where does protease act?19
A
C
B
D
Which statement describes transpiration?20
Water is pulled upwards by active transport.A
Water is pulled up from the roots by phloem.B
Water moves by osmosis inside the xylem vessels.C
Water vapour diffuses out of the leaves.D
Which statement describes the circulation of blood in the human body?21
Blood is pumped away from the heart by the atria.A
Blood is pumped away from the heart through arteries.B
Blood is pumped away from the heart through veins.C
Blood is pumped to the heart through capillaries.D
Which method of pathogen transmission is direct?22
breathing in pathogens in airA
eating contaminated foodB
transfusing contaminated bloodC
touching a door handle that has pathogens on itD
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
10

---

<!-- Page 11 -->

Which statement describes anaerobic respiration?23
Anaerobic respiration in humans produces lactic acid and carbon dioxide.A
Anaerobic respiration in yeast produces water and carbon dioxide.B
Anaerobic respiration releases energy from glucose without using oxygen.C
Anaerobic respiration releases more energy per glucose molecule than aerobic respiration.D
Which organ is responsible for the excretion of urea in the human body?24
D
C
A
B
Which part of the eye contains light receptors?25
corneaA
irisB
lensC
retinaD
[Turn over06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
11

---

<!-- Page 12 -->

Which row shows the effects of adrenaline secretion?26
heart ratepupil diameter
decreasesdecreasesA
increasesdecreasesB
decreasesincreasesC
increasesincreasesD
A plant pot is placed on its side.
Which diagram shows a plant with roots showing gravitropism and shoots showing phototropism?
27
C D
A B
lightlight
lightlight
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
12

---

<!-- Page 13 -->

The graph shows how the percentage effectiveness of antibiotic F against MRSA bacteria varied
between 1980 and 2000.
28
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
1980 1990
time / year
2000
percentage
effectiveness
of antibiotic F
against MRSA
What is a correct conclusion from the graph?
Antibiotic F was completely ineffective against MRSA in 2000.A
Antibiotic F was most effective in 1982.B
MRSA developed resistance to antibiotic F between 1981 and 2000.C
The greatest decrease in effectiveness of antibiotic F against MRSA was between 1988
and 1990.
D
Which statement describes asexual reproduction?29
Gametes are involved in this type of reproduction.A
Offspring are genetically different from each other.B
Offspring are genetically identical to the parent.C
Two parents are required for this type of reproduction.D
[Turn over06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
13

---

<!-- Page 14 -->

What is the function of the acrosome in a sperm cell?30
The acrosome contains enzymes that digest the jelly coat of an egg cell.A
The acrosome is needed for the sperm cell to move.B
The acrosome releases energy.C
The acrosome stores genetic information.D
Which diagram shows fertilisation?31
A
C
B
D
key
female gamete
male gamete
nucleus
What is HIV?32
a bacteriumA
an enzymeB
a pathogenC
an antibodyD
What describes an allele?33
an alternative form of a chromosome made of DNAA
an alternative form of a chromosome made of proteinB
an alternative form of a gene made of DNAC
an alternative form of a gene made of proteinD
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
14

---

<!-- Page 15 -->

The images show four animals.34
1 2
3 4
tortoise tiger
sheep eagle
Which two animals show adaptive features for being secondary consumers?
2 and 4D2 and 3C1 and 4B1 and 3A
[Turn over06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
15

---

<!-- Page 16 -->

A gene is added to the genetic material of an avocado plant.
This gene makes the avocado fruits stay ripe for longer before they start to decompose.
What is this process an example of?
35
adaptation1
genetic modification2
selective breeding3
3 onlyD2 onlyC1 and 3 onlyB1, 2 and 3A
The diagram shows a food chain.
plant leaf → slug → frog → fox
Which terms describe the position of the fox in this food chain?
36
trophic levelconsumer
fourthquaternaryA
thirdtertiaryB
thirdquaternaryC
fourthtertiaryD
These are processes found in the carbon cycle.37
combustion•
decomposition•
feeding•
photosynthesis•
respiration•
How many of these processes release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere?
4D3C2B1A
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
16

---

<!-- Page 17 -->

Which change occurs when areas of forest are cleared for farming?38
decreased release
of carbon dioxide into the atmosphereA
increased biodiversityB
increased loss of soilC
increased release of oxygen into the atmosphereD
What is a use of ethanol?39
biofuel productionA
biological washing powderB
bread-makingC
fruit juice productionD
The diagram shows a label found on a container of biological washing powder.40
Biological washing powder
• works at low temperatures
• contains protease
• contains lipase
•
keep out of reach of children
Which stains does the washing powder remove?
food stain
containingoil
food stain
containing
fat
food stain
containing
protein
food stain
containing
carbohydrates
key✗✗✓✓A
✓ = yes✓✗✗✓B
✗ = no✓✓✓✗C
✗✓✗✗D
06_0970_12_2024_1.1© UCLES 2024
17

---

<!-- Page 18 -->

18 
BLANK PAGE 
© UCLES 2024 06_0970_12_2024_1.1

---

<!-- Page 19 -->

19 
BLANK PAGE 
© UCLES 2024 06_0970_12_2024_1.1

---

<!-- Page 20 -->

20 
BLANK PAGE 
Permission to reproduce items where third-party owned material protected by copyright is included has been sought and cleared where possible. Every 
reasonable effort has been made by the publisher (UCLES) to tra ce copyright holders, but if any items requiring clearance have  unwittingly been included, the 
publisher will be pleased to make amends at the earliest possible opportunity. 
To avoid the issue of disclosure of answer-related information to candidates, all copyright acknowledgements are reproduced on line in the Cambridge 
Assessment International Education Copyright Acknowledgements Booklet. This is produced for each series of examinations and is freely available to download 
at www.cambridgeinternational.org after the live examination series. 
Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambrid ge Assessment. Cambridge Assessment is the brand name of the Un iversity of Cambridge 
Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES), which is a department of the University of Cambridge. 
© UCLES 2024 06_0970_12_2024_1.1