Dear all,

I've asked all of you that have any questions after the lesson on Friday to come to the drop-in session tomorrow. If there is a good reason why you can't attend then you must email to explain why you won't be there.

Meanwhile, please ALL OF YOU read through the following descriptions that should help you to understand everything so far.

Voltage is the energy that is carried by the charge. Charge is not energy, it's something that particles (electrons) have.  An electron has a fixed amount of negative charge which allows it to be pushed around a circuit by the battery. So every electron is pushed by the battery and carries some energy (given to it by the battery).

Current is the rate that charge is flowing, or 'the rate of flow of charge'.  It is the amount of charge per second.

Term definitions:
Voltage is the energy that is given to charge to be carried around the circuit (to give to devices, eg lamps)
Current is the rate that charge is flowing, so charge flow per second
Charge is a property of particles, it's positive or negative (eg electrons have negative charge), just like you'd say a particle has so much mass, it also has charge. It can't be made or changed, but it can be moved around by moving the particles.
Coulomb is just the unit of charge, we would say something has 2 Coulombs of charge, symbol C. Same as meters is the unit of distance.
Amperes (usually called Amps) is the unit of current, symbol A.
Resistance is a property of an electric device (e.g. lamp, motor, resistor) that slows the flow of current.

For current, just think of a battery pulling in electrons and pushing them out the other end like a pump. The electrons are pushed around the circuit by this process, and the flow of the electrons around the current is called the current.

<image1.png>

Voltage, as mentioned above, is the energy that's given to the charge.  It's also the push that the battery gives to make the electrons flow. So A 1.5V battery gives the charged particles (electrons) potential energy, and pushes the electrons around the circuit (the current).

Finally, just a reminder.  In a circuit the following rules are applied:
Current:
In a series circuit, the current is the same everywhere
In a parallel circuit, at a junction (where the circuit splits into 2 or more branches), the current is shared to each branch; e.g. if you have 2A current, and it splits evenly at a junction, each junction will have 1A each.
Voltage:
Think the opposite:
In a series circuit, every component (e.g. lamps, resistors etc), will share the whole voltage; e.g. if we have a resistor and a lamp in series, each of those will have ('drop') a part of the total voltage, and if you add up the voltages across each of those components, they will add up to the total
In a parallel circuit, the voltage across each branch is equal to the total voltage (so 3V battery suppling 2 branches, each branch has the full 3V).

Examples:
<image2.png>


For this circuit, let's say that the current through the lamp is 0.5A and the question asks, what is the current through the resistor? Well, we know that, in a series circuit, current is the same everywhere. So, the current through the resistor is also 0.5A.
<image3.png>

This is a parallel circuit. We are being asked about the current through the right hand branch (with the lamp above the ammeter A8). The rule for parallel circuits and current is that at a junction, the current is shared between the branches. So, we are told that the current through the battery is 0.8A (left hand side with the battery). Follow the wires up from the battery and across and we reach a junction. We know that the current going down from that junction is 0.2A. We want to know the current in the other branch. As the total from the battery is 0.8A and 0.2A has gone down the first branch, our branch must have the remaining 0.6A.

<image4.png>

This is a series circuit and the question is about voltage. The rule is that the total voltage (battery) is shared with the components that are in series (lamp and resistor). The total is 6V, and we know the lamp has 4V of that total, so the remainder is 2V which is across the resistor.
<image5.png>

Here, this is also a series circuit, so the voltages for each component add up to the total (battery). So battery voltage = 5V + 8V = 13V.

Finally, a more complicated one:
<image6.png>

We need to find the battery voltage (V9), and the voltage across the middle lamp (V10). This is a parallel circuit, and the right hand branch has 2 lamps (so these 2 lamps are in series).  The 2 lamps on the right hand branch have 3.2V and 3.6V respectively. As they are in series, the rule is we add up the voltages. So the right hand branch has a total of 3.2V+3.6V = 6.8V.  Now, the rule for parallel branches is that each parallel branch has the same voltage across it. So, the right hand branch has 6.8V, thus the middle branch also has 6.8V across it. So V10 = 6.8V.  And we know each branch has the total across the battery, so the battery voltage V9 = 6.8V.